Cleaning up and completing the explainer (#26)
WICG/resource-bundles: subresource-loading-server.md

## Basic operation

As explained in the [overview](./overview.md), the server receives a request for a bundled response that targets the Web bundle file and includes a `Bundle-Preload` header listing the requested resources.

The response from the server will be in the [bundled response](https://github.com/wpack-wg/bundled-responses) format, containing HTTP responses for each of the requested URLs.

The server may return more resources than those originally requested. The browser may choose to cache those resources; it it does so, it should not make those additional resources available to the page until they are themselves included in a `bundlepreload` declaration.

### Response headers

The server response will include the header `Vary: Bundle-Preload`, to signify that the bundle should be requested again for a different value of the `Bundle-Preload` resource list.

`Cache-Control: private` may be used to indicate that the response may be stored only by a browser's cache. This directive is intended as a hint to intermediate servers that they should not try to store many variants of the same bundle.

> `Cache-Control: private bundled` (note the new value) may be used to let bundling-aware intermediate servers understand that the data it is not private and may be cached, but probably with a bundling-specific strategy.

Reviewer: I don't know as much as I should about header parsing, but I believe `private bundled` has different semantics than `private,bundled` and we would want `private,bundled` I believe for backwards compatibility. `bundled` without `private` would also be a good case to discuss; I think there are a few options for what an intermediary could do there. The simplest would be to consider it a no-op or an error.

Author: Yes, eventually we will need to specify the semantics and interactions of these values with more detail.

I will update this line to `Cache-Control: private, bundled`

> `Cache-Control: private bundled` (note the new value) may be used to let bundling-aware intermediate servers understand that the data it is not private and may be cached, but probably with a bundling-specific strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Cache-Control: private,bundled` (note the new directive) may be used to let bundling-aware intermediate servers understand that the data it is not private and may be cached, but probably with a bundling-specific strategy.
```

<!-- Removed mentions of Bundle-Preload in the response. Add them again if there is a need for it. -->

## Backwards compatibility

> By default, the original bundle file stored in the server contains all of the resources that may be requested from it. It is up to the browser and the server to negotiate the eventual transmission of only a subset of those resources.

Reviewer: Instead of 'by default' - since there's no actual requirement that bundles exist as files, server-side - maybe something like "It is intended that a bundle stored on a static file server contains..."? My wording is not very good there.

Author: My idea with "by default" was to link this with the backwards compatibility below: if either the server or the client don't support subsetting, the whole bundle is downloaded.

Author: I've rewritten the `Backwards compatibility` section. I hope the new version is a bit clearer.

> This provides backwards compatibility: a request without a `Bundle-Preload` header, or to a server that does not support subsetting, will simply result in the download of the whole bundle file. All of the desired resources will be available in that bundle, although this might be more inefficient because it could also cause the transmission of resources that are already in the browser's cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provides backwards compatibility: a request without a `Bundle-Preload` header, or to a server that does not support bundle preloading, will simply result in the download of the whole bundle file. All of the desired resources will be available in that bundle, although this might be more inefficient because it could also cause the transmission of resources that are already in the browser's cache.

To preserve [URL identity](#FIXME link to appropriate section in other file),  uploading bundles to static file servers should be followed by 'unpacking' the bundle with an appropriate tool on the server, or by additionally uploading the individual resources contained within the bundle.
```

Author: The idea was to talk about subsetting here: if the client does not request a subset of resources, or the server is not able to provide that subset, then the whole bundle file will be downloaded.

That behaviour could be optional _("in order to provide backwards compatibility, it is recommended that…")_

> However, this performance hit does not need to happen more than once: assuming that the bundle is immutable (see [revving](./glossary.md#revving)), when the browser visits other pages that request a different subset of resources, those additional resources will already be available in the browser's cache as they were already received as part of the initial bundle.

Reviewer: The performance hit is still incurred in downloading new resources - though cached resources can be loaded with low latency, new resources will have the overhead of extra unused data sent in the response.

Author: True. My intention was to communicate that downloading the whole bundle file, although it is the worse case in terms of performance, also means that anything that could be requested from that bundle later on will already be in the cache (assuming that the bundle is immutable).

> Conversely, if the client is not able to carry out bundle preloading requests, the resources will be available from the server through individual requests.

Reviewer: This could use a little elaboration. How about:
```suggestion
Conversely, if the client is not able to carry out bundle preloading requests, there are two options. The resources can be made available from the server through individual requests. Or, the client may use a [ServiceWorker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API) to polyfill the functionality.
```

<!-- Graceful degradation, Progressive enhancement -->

## Performance considerations

This mechanism relies on the creation of a set of bundled responses for each request. [Experimental prototyping](./implementation.md) shows that this can be done with reasonable performance, specially as the number of files grows, although more systematic testing will be required in the future.

From the point of view of the client, a resource may be obtained individually or as part of a bundle. In the server, the most trivial implementation of this concept is to store both the bundle file and each of the individual resources. This introduces tradeoffs in terms of storage space and preserving the consistency between the version in the bundle and in the filesystem. Alternatively, the server may opt to store only the bundle file and serve subsets of it as required, as part of bundled or individual responses.

> There might be a performance hit as the number of resources becomes very large. We are studying 

Reviewer: Oops, a little more to go. An attempt:
```suggestion
There might be a performance hit as the number of resources becomes very large. We are studying the overhead of bundle preloading for servers, caching proxies, and browsers and aim to develop benchmarks to ensure the overhead is acceptably low.
```
